# Go-Expense-Tracker-CLI
This is a project from Roadmap.sh, here is the link: https://roadmap.sh/projects/expense-tracker

This project allows the user to keep track of expenses through the command line. You can add, delete, list, and summarize your expenses. You can also set a budget for a particular month. The budget is automatically checked when a new expense is added, but you can also manually  check with the check-budget command whenever you want. I have also implemented an export command to export the expenses to a CSV file.

The project currently keeps track of the budget and expenses with the use of .json files. The files in the project are populated with test data. They can be deleted and will be initialized again through running the project. The "expenses.json" file will be created once the first addition is made, and the "budget.json" file will be created once the first budget is set. The "expenses.csv" file will also be automatically generated by  the export command if it is deleted.

# -----------------Make file commands for Linux-----------------

# Make Build
Builds the project 
# Make Install
Moves the project into ./bin folder so you can simply use expense-tracker in terminal instead of the projects file location

# Make Uninstall
Uninstall will remove it from your ./bin folder and allow you to build/install new changes made to the project

# --------------------------Project Commands--------------------------
I will assume you are on linux and have installed this project into your ./bin folder

# expense-tracker add --description "description" --amount $$ --category "category"
Add command, the description and category belong in "" while the price amount just needs to be a valid number, positive value, without quotes

# expense-tracker delete --id 2
Delete command, allows the user to delete expenses by thier ID. The ID doesn't need to be in quotes, just a valid id number in your list

# expense-tracker list
# expense-tracker list --category "category"
List command, allows you to list all or just some of your expenses based on their category

# expense-tracker summary
# expense-tracker summary --month 12
Summary command, allows you to see a summary of all charges, how much money you've spent in total, or just the ones that belong to a particular month. The month requires no quotes just a valid number(1-12).

# expense-tracker budget --month 12 --amount $$
# expense-tracker check-budget --month 12
Budget commands, there are two commands which are related to budget. The first allows you to set a budget for a particular month and amount, while the second allows you to simply check the budget for a provided month. No quotes needed, just valid numbers for thier fields

# expense-tracker export
Export command, allows the user to export their expenses to a CSV file. The files name will be expenses.csv